<link href="http://kevinburke.bitbucket.org/markdowncss/markdown.css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<!-- Pretty -->
Paper Computing
---------------

Nadir Weibel

## Proto Writing ##
8500 BC -> 3500 BC

- Tokens evolve to envelopes and writing. People actually manipulated tokens to form words.

## Heiroglyphs and Alphabets ##

- Egyptian Heiroglyphs ( ~ 2700 BC)
- Semitic Alphabet ( ~ 1850 BC)
- Phoenician Alphabet ( ~ 1050 BC)

People wrote agreements in stone, and also sent messages for war.

## Early Pens and "Paper" ##

- Egypt develops papyrus in 3500 BC. Papyrus isn't much different from paper.

## Paper ##

- One of the 4 great inventions of China.

Hemp wrapping paper ~ 200 BC

## Paper Making ##

- Cai Lun documents how paper is used
- Paper to wrap objects around 105 AD. At this time writing was mostly on stones.
- Writing happens around 300 AD

## Printing ##

- Occurs in Ancient China, around 6th century
- Woodblock printing

## Europe ##

- Paper starts around 11th - 15th century
- Gutenburg press 1436 - 1450

## Publishing ##

- Industrial revolution ~ 19th century
- Rotatory printing press

## Print Tech ##

- Chromolitography (Color printing)
- Flexography (Relief printing)

## Digital & Personal Printing ##

- 1957: Dye sublimation printing
- 1964: Dot matrix printing
- 1969: Laser printing (Xerox)
- 1976: Inkjet printing
- 2003: 3D printing

# Documents #

- Digital documents started off as stand-alone, but now they are shared

Ramelli has this idea of a crazy thing that lets you read multiple books from the comfort
of one chair. This can be thought as the precursor of Vladmir Bush's memex.

## "The office of the future" ##

- Some people think that paper is going to disappear.
- Businessweek 1975

## Myth of the paperless office ##

- 2 Microsoft researchers want to make the best of both worlds

## Digital Desk ##

- Xerox EuroParc 1992

## Electronic Paper ##

- Xerox Gyricon
- E-Ink
- Xlibris
- Fujitsu E-Paper

## E-Readers ##

- Kindle etc.


Electronic paper and e-readers don't let you do some of the things that you can do with normal
paper. Can't rip out pages, write on, send to a friend.

## Digital Pen & Paper ##

- Anoto
- This technology existed around 2001. Made it easy to upload forms to computer.
  - Eliminates middlemen. No one had to type in forms by hand

## Interactive Paper Toolkits ##

- Paper Augmented Digital Documents
- Paper Toolkit
- iPaper / iServer

Use pens to wirelessly interact / communicate. 


# Applications #

## PaperPoint ##

- Mobile presentation tool
- Non-linear presentations
- Paper-based realtime annotations
- Digital whiteboard
- Multi-pen support
  - Brainstorming

## ButterflyNet ##

- Connect digital pen + photos and view combined
- Developed for field biologists
- Automatically correlates notes with photos
- Hotspot linking: can indicate where a photo should appear in paper notes
- Visual specimen tag: link a physical specimen to a photo, using a barcode / envelope

## PaperProof ##

- Even though documents are created digitally, they are often used physically
- Physical annotations need to be re-annotated
- This system mirrors annotations on the digital document

## Livescribe multimodal pen ##

- Implements microphone, speaker, display
- Open application platform


# Pen and Paper Computing @ UCSD #

## ChronoViz ##

- Multimodal Visualziation Tool

## UbiSketch ##

- Ubiquitous sketching for social media
- There's a lot of text and words on social networks
- Social networks don't represent the amount of sketching that is actually going on
- User draws sketch -> Phone -> Server -> FB, TW etc.

## TraumaPen ##

- People tend to ask a lot of repetitive questions during trauma care
- There's already a nurse scribe in the room taking notes
- Her notes can be displayed on a large display if she uses a digital pen

## HIPerFace / HIPerPaper ##

- Interface for huge display
