Notes 11.27
-----------

**Assignment**

Will two subjects recall a passage they memorize better than a single subject?

Distributed memory occurs often in real life. It is highly interactive, brains interact more
highly coupled than brain + computer.

Will do a basic memorization task. Factorial design. Experiment should take around 90 minutes.
We will need > 3 laptops, and recording video would be a good idea.

***Enactive Cognition***

- We can't attend to everything.
- Change blindness.
- How can we recall things that we don't perceive?

***Criticism***

This experiment is contrived, not an ecologically natural occurance. Does not work well with
enactive cognition theory.

_Due Monday_

**Lecture**

How come situated cognition has nothing to say about problem solving? Kirsh's paper tried to 
explain how it could.

***Water measuring problem / Nine dots problem***

- Cognitive set
- People get stuck based on how they frame the problem
- Better problem solving
  - What exactly are the constraints?
  - Did I frame the problem wrong?

People do better in physical situations vs on paper.

Don't think about consciousness, it will fail your career.

***Kirsh's claims***

- Smart seeing is thinking
- Thinking as interacting
  - Architects use layovers
  - Gestures, etc
- Extended-Distributed cognition
  - Interaction with external representations is a part of thinking
  - Making a gear thingy: Create a free body diagram
    - Once you know how to draw it you can think about it
    - Even if you don't draw it
- We think with objects
  - Interacting with external representation is a special case of thinking with things
  - Thinking about force by working with force

***Classical view***

- Process in the head
- Having a thought is similar to having a proposition
  - Proposition: Subject and predicate
  - Uses "concepts"
    - Compositional
    - What are the meanings of these "concepts", are they context dependent?
  - What does it mean to grasp a proposition?
    - DCog: If you can simulate it in your head, then you have understood it to some extent.
    - Not fully articulated in the classical approach
- Whatever you can attend to you can thing
  - Any aspect of a thing is a potential object of thought
    - Extracting aspects from things is _crucial_
  - But thinking is post-perceptual
- Conscious level involves inner vehicles

***Revised view***

- Still internal, but outward vocalization can supplant inner words
  - Thanks to Wittgenstein: Only one thing is going on
- Non-conceptual thoughts are possible
  - Orienting reflexes
  - "Primal" knowledge

***Post-Classical view***

- Visual routine
  - Identification of squiggly in polgon
    - Use of painting inside polygon
  - We develop them on-the-fly!
    - This is as amazing as being able to follow instructions
- Minsky: One of the four fathers of AI
  - Interested in heuristic reasoning
  - Their thought: Everything is pattern-recognition. Anything can be solved using perceptrons!
    - Not really, can't seem to solve palindromes
    - Can't do step-by-step procedures: it's parallel
    - Minsky: We use heuristics to think - serial processes
